API to extract IPAM information (#11831)
canonical/lxd: doc/howto/network_ipam.md

(network-ipam)=
# How to display IPAM information of a LXD deployment

> Checking the IPAM information for your LXD setup can help you debug networking issues. You can see which IP addresses/ranges are used for instances, network interfaces, forwards, and load balancers and use this information to track down where traffic is lost.

Reviewer: I didn't mean that you should replace the original intro, but add this as a second paragraph. I liked the intro. :)

Reviewer: Is it "IP addresses" or "IP ranges" or both?

Author: IP addresses

(network-ipam)=
# How to display IPAM information of a LXD deployment

{abbr}`IPAM (IP address management)` is a method used to plan, track, and manage the information associated with a computer network's IP address space. In essence, it's a way of organizing, monitoring, and manipulating the IP space in a network.

> You can display {abbr}`IPAM` information like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To display IPAM information, enter the following command:
```

Reviewer: Resolving the abbreviation on the first occurrence is sufficient. :)

```bash
lxc network list-allocations

Flags:
    --all-projects          Run against all projects
    -p, --project string    Run again a specific project (default "default")

> ```

Reviewer: Usually we don't just list the flags (there's the help command for that) but describe the relevant ones in text.
So this could be something like:

"By default, this command shows the IPAM information for the `default` project.
You can select a different project with the `--project` flag, or specify `--all-projects` to display the information for all projects."

The resulting output will look something like this:

```
{
	"cidr_addresses": [
		"10.6.105.1/32",

> 		"fd42:3cce:990:a1fd::1/128"

Reviewer: Can you fake the IPs to use [documentation IP addresses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reserved_IP_addresses), or does that not make sense here?

	],
	"used_by": "/1.0/networks/lxdbr0",
	"type": "network",
	"nat": false,
	"hwaddr": ""
}

{
	"cidr_addresses": [
		"fd42:3cce:990:a1fd:216:3eff:fe13:99e/128",
		"10.6.105.121"
	],
	"used_by": "/1.0/instances/u1",
	"type": "instance",
	"nat": false,
	"hwaddr": "00:16:3e:13:09:9e"
}

...
```

> Each listed entry represents an IP allocation of one of the following LXD entities : `network`, `network-forward`, `network-load-balancer` and `instance`.
> 
> An entry contains a list of IP addresses using the CIDR notation. It also contains a LXD resource URI, the type of the entity, whether it is in NAT mode and eventually the hardware address (only for `instance` entity).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each listed entry represents an IP allocation of one of the following LXD entities: `network`, `network-forward`, `network-load-balancer`, and `instance`.

An entry contains a list of IP addresses using the CIDR notation. 
It also contains a LXD resource URI, the type of the entity, whether it is in NAT mode, and the hardware address (only for the `instance` entity).
```
